Hello everyone.
Welcome to part two of our two part lesson on how to write super organized CSX.
In part one we learned about file architecture and in this lesson part two we will learn about identifying
patterns in our design and we will also learn about a few rules and guidelines that we want to follow
when coming up with class names and writing our CSF selectors.
Let's cut the intro and get started.
So here we are in part two of the lesson and let's pick up right where we left off so let's continue
working on this large hero section now that we have this text positioned correctly.
Let's focus on styling the text so that it looks like this.
So let's begin with this your clarity line in the HMO.
We see that that is a heading Level 1 element.
So if we want to begin styling this element how would we do that.
We would probably go into our large Hero Doc CSX file and create a new rule.
And what would our selector look like.
We'd probably say go into the large hero div and then target any H1 element.
So for example let's make the text be not bold so font weight 300.
OK.
Let's head over to the command line and make sure that our web pack task is running.
So just type NPM run Dev.
Let's go back to the text editor and save this CSX file.
And if we refresh in the browser watch this text it is no longer bold which means our selector is working
and let's actually talk about this selector for a moment.
So this is how myself and an entire generation of developers were taught to write CSX.
However in recent years there has been a move away from using type and descendant selectors like this.
And instead we've seen a move towards a more systematic way of targeting elements.
One of the most popular systems or methodologies for coming up with selectors is named Bem.
And in this course we are going to follow a lot of the basic Bem principles Bem is an acronym and I
will explain what it stands for in just a second but first I want to point out that in Bem we would
not write a selector like this.
Instead the Bem way of doing it would be to go into the HMO and just give this element a class.
Let's go with large hero underscore underscore title and then we would simply target the element with
that class in our CSF large hero underscore underscore title.
Now some of you might be squirming in your seats right now because this is going against everything
you were originally taught about writing clean semantic HDMI.
Well I know that's how I felt when I first learned about them.
But the truth is that I think we were misguided in the past about what it means to write semantic HDMI
PML.
I will circle back to that topic later on in the lesson.
But first you're probably wondering what these two underscores mean.
And that's a perfect segue way into what the letters B E M stand for.
So first of all Bem is an abstract way of thinking about our design or interface this philosophy or
way of thinking can be broken up into three concepts.
The first is the B in Bem which stands for block a block is an independent reusable part of our design.
So for an example let's look at the design file that the designer sent to us.
This large hero section that we've been working on is a block as we scroll down the design.
I think the next best example of a block would be in the features section we see there are four features
here here here and here.
So I would say that this is an example of a block.
This block is independent it can stand on its own and it can be reused.
If we scroll down a bit further we see the testimonials area.
There are three testimonials and I would say that this is a testimonial block and this block is reused
an additional two times for the other two testimonials.
So B is for block.
Let's move on to the e in Bam.
It stands for element an element belongs to a block it is dependent on a block which means it cannot
be used outside of the block that it belongs to.
So for example if we scroll back up to the top of our design within this large hero block this heading
is an element.
This heading is also an element.
These headings use font styles and margins that aren't reused anywhere else in the design.
They are unique to this large hero block.
Perhaps a clearer example of what an element is would be down here at the bottom in the testimonials
area.
So this image that is cropped in a circle is horizontally centered and vertically violates.
This box is an element that belongs to the testimonial block.
We will never want to use this image outside the context of a testimonial.
So conceptually we think of this image as an element that belongs to this block.
So E is for element let's move on to the M in Bam which stands for modifier a modifier can be used on
a block or an element.
And we use a modifier to indicate a change to the default state of an object.
So for example let's imagine we have a mobile menu on a Web site and by default the menu is hidden or
closed.
But when a user taps on the menu icon we want to use javascript to add a modifier class to the menu
block of Dash.
Dash is open that modifier class will modify the block from being closed or invisible to being open
invisible when the user taps on the menu icon a second time to hide the menu.
We will simply use javascript to remove that modifier class in the menu block will be hidden once again
which is its default state.
Let's look at another example of how we can use modifiers.
So for example I'm noticing a button style used throughout our design.
Here is one button here's another button and then down in the footer.
Here is another button.
So because the button is reused throughout the design conceptually let's consider it a block and let's
say that this medium sized blue button in the header is the default state of the button block.
So this button would simply have a class of button the button that's down in the footer could use that
same class of button but we would add a modifier class of button dash dash Orange to get it to look
this way.
And this large orange button could also use a class of button but we would maybe add two modifiers one
named button dash dash orange and another named button dash dash large.
And that is modifiers in a nutshell.
All right.
So now we know what the letters in Bem stand for.
Now let's talk about a few of the other key concepts and advantages to using them.
All of our CSF selectors should target elements directly with classes instead of relying on generic
type selectors descendant selectors and the cascade.
This means that we are somewhat eliminating the C from C Ss since we are limiting the cascading and
trickling down of styles on the page.
We are creating a one on one relationship between a block of H PML and its C Ss.
We don't need to worry about any parent elements trickling their styles down to our blocks and hurting
the predictability of our blocks styles.
This means that our blocks are independent self-contained and we are free to move them around and reuse
them throughout the page.
Another important concept is that blocks can be nested inside of other blocks.
The idea is to identify patterns in our design and then create single responsibility blocks that can
be used together.
What does that phrase single responsibility mean.
Well if we look at our design file really quickly if we scroll down I see two columns here.
This text column takes up about two thirds of the width and this image takes up about one third of the
width.
We scroll down further.
I see columns once again in this our features area.
This column takes up about half the width and this column takes up about half the width.
We scroll down further.
Again I see columns.
There are three columns one for each testimonial.
So clearly columns are a pattern that we have identified in the design.
And there is no reason to code a pattern more than once.
So what I would do is create a block that is responsible for creating column layouts.
I would use that block here to create three empty columns and then within each column block I would
nest a testimonial block.
That way the column block has the single responsibility of creating column layouts and we can reuse
that block throughout the page.
And the testimonial block has the single responsibility of creating the unique styling for the testimonials.
All right.
And let me give you one last reason to use bam.
It is that beam makes the relationship between our H T amount and our CSX crystal clear.
Why does that matter.
Well if you've ever tried to update a Web site that you haven't touched in a year or if you've ever
inherited a Web site that someone else originally built.
If that Web site doesn't use some sort of naming methodology trying to edit the Web site CSX is like
untangling a plate of spaghetti.
You don't have the confidence to actually edit any of the existing CSX because you don't know where
the styles are being used and what your changes might break.
And if you can't edit the existing CSX What do you end up doing.
You throw more spaghetti on top of the plate.
Right.
So you end up creating brand new styles and sloppily throwing them at the very bottom of a huge CSX
file.
And that is not organized at all.
It is not maintainable and it is a developer's nightmare with them.
The relationship between h t AML and CSX is clear.
So you can come back to a Web site a year later and confidently edit the existing styles since you know
exactly where and how those rules will affect the page.
All right.
So that's enough Bem theory for now.
Let's get back to actually writing CSX but really quickly before we do I want to address the one big
concern that you might have because you might be thinking this Bem stuff is all well and good but what
about the semantics of our HMO out is adding all of these extra classes with presentational names making
our HDMI less semantic.
That's a fair question.
The answer is no.
Now instead of me arguing and explaining why that's the case I will just go ahead and quote someone
who is 100 times smarter than I am and a million times more of an authority in the web development community
than I am.
His name is Nicholas Gallagher.
He is the creator of normalized CSX.
He's very well-known and super respected in the web development community.
And he has an excellent blog post on each t semantics.
And here are a few quotes for you.
So Nicholas says that class names cannot be on semantic.
Nicholas says that content layer semantics are already served by each TMF elements plus names impart
little or no useful semantic information to machines or human visitors.
The primary purpose of a class name is to be a hook for C Ss and JavaScript.
Class names should communicate useful information to developers.
All right.
So there you have it.
If adding extra presentational classes doesn't bother Nicolas GALLAGHER It definitely shouldn't bother
us when you have a free moment.
I recommend checking out the full blog post by Nicholas.
It's a great read.
But for now let's get back to actually working on the travel agency Web site.
So here is what we have so far.
We want this your clarity line to be blue and large to match the design.
So over in our CSX file within this title rule let's apply the hexadecimal code for the main blue color
that we will be using throughout the design.
And let's also bump up the font size to four point a ram if you've never seen REM before.
Don't worry we will cover how Ram works in detail shortly but for now let's go ahead and save this and
refresh in the browser looks good.
Let's go ahead and begin styling this one trip away heading.
So first let's jump over to our H T demo here is that element and let's give it a class so that we can
target it the BAM way.
Let's go with large hero.
That's the block that it belongs to.
And this is an element that belongs to the block so to indicate that it is an element we say under or
underscore and then the name of the element.
Let's go with subtitle and over in our CSX we can create a new rule large hero underscore underscore
subtitle we can actually just copy and paste these three declarations and just change the font size
to two point nine REM.
Go ahead and save that and refresh in the browser.
Looks good.
There might be a bit too much margin or spacing between the two headings.
We can adjust that in just a moment but first before we go any further I want to show you a neat post
CSX nesting trick.
So normally when we write post CSX or SAS we like to make use of the nesting feature to conceptually
group code that is related to each other.
So for example here is the main rule for the large hero block and these three rules are selecting elements
that belong to this block.
So conceptually it would make sense to take one of these for example and try to nest it within this
large hero rule.
Now if I save this and we take a look at these CSX file that post CSX generates for us we see that the
nesting feature gets compiled into a descendant selector.
And while this will work in the browser.
So if I refresh the positioning stays intact descendant selectors go against the beam philosophy.
We want to avoid descendant selectors whenever we can because they often create specificity wars if
we instead select elements with direct class selectors.
We can maintain a very flat C Ss architecture or a flat specificity tree.
We will talk about why that's important.
Later on in the course.
But for now the question becomes how can we have the best of both worlds.
How can we write nested CSX to help us stay organized conceptually without having Web pack compile things
down to a descendant selector.
Well check out this little trick.
So back in our large hero file within this nested rule let's change its selector to simply and ampersand
is go ahead and hit save.
Now if we check out the CSF that gets generated for us we see that the ampersand was replaced with the
route rules selector.
So for example if we say Ampersand Hello World and hit save that gets compiled into the route selector
and then it just adds on whatever we type hello world so we can adapt this behavior to fit the Bem philosophy
perfectly.
So we know that just the ampersand will give us large hero and then we can say underscore underscore
text content go ahead and hit save that will generate the exact bam class name.
So if we refresh in the browser things still look good we are following the Bem philosophy and we now
get to use nested CSX.
So we are having our cake and eating it too.
Let's go ahead and move these other two rules into the main block rule so let's copy this pasted into
this block rule and replace dot large hero with an ampersand.
Let's do the same thing for this subtitle rule pasted in here.
Remove the DOT large hero Ampersand Excellent.
So we can already see how organized our CSX is becoming our main CSX file imports in different single
responsibility CSX files and within our CSX modules folder we will have a new file for each block of
the design.
So within this module or block file we have our base block rule and then we can nest all of the Ben
elements within that one rule and that will bring this lesson to a close now that we speak the same
beam language and are familiar with the basic beam syntax rules.
We can begin making a ton of progress in our next lesson.
We will finish the styling for the large hero block and we will also begin and complete the styling
for the button block.
It's gonna be a lot of fun.
There won't be as much theory weighing us down and I will see you in the next lesson.